feat(grid): add pane component page (#416)
zendeskgarden/website: src/pages/components/pane.mdx

---
title: Pane
description: >
  Panes give users a quick way to resize layouts vertically or horizontally by
  interacting with the splitter. They can also be used to create expandable or
  collapsible layouts.
package: '@zendeskgarden/react-grid'
components:
  - grid/src/elements/pane/PaneProvider.tsx
  - grid/src/elements/pane/Pane.tsx
subcomponents:
  - grid/src/elements/pane/components/Content.tsx
  - grid/src/elements/pane/components/Splitter.tsx
  - grid/src/elements/pane/components/SplitterButton.tsx
---

<Usage>
  <Use>
    <ul>

>       <li>To make a structured layout resizable, expandable or collapsible</li>

Reviewer: [nit] is this missing an [Oxford comma](https://garden.zendesk.com/content/punctuation#comma)?

Reviewer 2: @smritimadan comma before the "or"!

Author: Done!

import PaneHorizontalCode from '!!raw-loader!../../examples/pane/PaneHorizontal.tsx';

<CodeExample code={PaneHorizontalCode}>
  <PaneHorizontal />
</CodeExample>

### Grid

Panes can be resized in both vertical and horizontal directions for a complex
grid flexible layout.

import PaneGrid from '../../examples/pane/PaneGrid.tsx';
import PaneGridCode from '!!raw-loader!../../examples/pane/PaneGrid.tsx';

<CodeExample code={PaneGridCode}>
  <PaneGrid />
</CodeExample>

## Customization

Panes can be collapsed or expanded by using the [SplitterButton](#panesplitterbutton).

### Vertical collapse

import PaneVerticalCollapse from '../../examples/pane/PaneVerticalCollapse.tsx';
import PaneVerticalCollapseCode from '!!raw-loader!../../examples/pane/PaneVerticalCollapse.tsx';

<CodeExample code={PaneVerticalCollapseCode}>
  <PaneVerticalCollapse />
</CodeExample>

### Horizontal collapse

import PaneHorizontalCollapse from '../../examples/pane/PaneHorizontalCollapse.tsx';
import PaneHorizontalCollapseCode from '!!raw-loader!../../examples/pane/PaneHorizontalCollapse.tsx';

<CodeExample code={PaneHorizontalCollapseCode}>
  <PaneHorizontalCollapse />
</CodeExample>

> ### Splitter button position

Author: Changed from "Icon button position" to "Splitter button position" for consistency. Let me know if this works @lucijanblagonic and @diana-oum .

Reviewer 2: 👍 @smritimadan

that you set.

import PaneVertical from '../../examples/pane/PaneVertical.tsx';
import PaneVerticalCode from '!!raw-loader!../../examples/pane/PaneVertical.tsx';

<CodeExample code={PaneVerticalCode}>
  <PaneVertical />
</CodeExample>

### Horizontal

Panes can be used in a horizontal orientation as well.

import PaneHorizontal from '../../examples/pane/PaneHorizontal.tsx';
import PaneHorizontalCode from '!!raw-loader!../../examples/pane/PaneHorizontal.tsx';

<CodeExample code={PaneHorizontalCode}>
  <PaneHorizontal />
</CodeExample>

### Grid

Panes can be resized in both vertical and horizontal directions for a complex
grid flexible layout.

import PaneGrid from '../../examples/pane/PaneGrid.tsx';
import PaneGridCode from '!!raw-loader!../../examples/pane/PaneGrid.tsx';

<CodeExample code={PaneGridCode}>
  <PaneGrid />
</CodeExample>

## Customization

### Vertical collapse

Panes can be collapsed or expanded by using the splitter together with an
[Icon button](/components/icon-button). Vertical orientation uses a small circular
icon button positioned on top of the splitter by default in both collapsed and

> expanded states. [Tooltips](/components/tooltip) should be used to describe the action.

Author: Ah I see what you mean. @lucijanblagonic / @diana-oum  any thoughts here?

> expanded states. [Tooltips](/components/tooltip) should be used to describe the action.

Reviewer 3: Thinking back how this was initially documented, the expand collapse was supposed to be a pattern, so I thought referencing components used to build it made sense. But if we don't want users thinking about the actual components being used (as they come packaged out of the box) to build this I am OK with the change. If @diana-oum can give it a look 👀, that would be great. 

The only thing I am not sure is, should we just say "action" instead of the button / small circular button. As with this "small circular button" we are being oddly specific and it might not be necessary if it's not going to be referenced (linked) as a small icon button. 🤔

> expanded states. [Tooltips](/components/tooltip) should be used to describe the action.

Reviewer 4: Just a suggestion with the language - using the component name `SplitterButton` could be a good replacement (somewhat self explanatory) and would go a long way in tying the action/button within the context of `Pane` (without going deep into the implementation). As a developer, it makes it easier to mentally follow this down to the API section and identify the component in the example code.

I do like that the location of the action button / `SplitterButton` is described, I think that will be very helpful to anyone new to the component.

> expanded states. [Tooltips](/components/tooltip) should be used to describe the action.

Reviewer 2: ➕ 1 to Mike's suggestion to using its actual name. I think thats the most explicit and clear option for our readers to understand how to implement these things using the things we provide them with.

> Panes can be collapsed or expanded by using the SplitterButton[hyperlink to splitter button API section]. Vertical orientation uses a small circular icon button positioned on top of the splitter by default in both collapsed and expanded states. Include a label to describe the action.

The last sentence I am not sure though. What guidance are we giving for the label? Are we saying people should write a descriptive label for the action when they're using the component or to make sure to have a label in the implementation as it is an optional part to include? 

@lucijanblagonic Will there be a tooltip in the demo example? I don't see it in the Figma file. We should make sure we're providing good content guidance for the tooltip. Let's work on that if so.

> expanded states. [Tooltips](/components/tooltip) should be used to describe the action.

Author: > The last sentence I am not sure though. What guidance are we giving for the label? Are we saying people should write a descriptive label for the action when they're using the component or to make sure to have a label in the implementation as it is an optional part to include?

@diana-oum `label` is a required prop for `SplitterButton` that the consumer needs to supply. The API section describes this clearly so I'd say we don't repeat here, unless you wanted to provide content guidance for it.

Here is my suggestion, (less visual description to decouple our documentation from visual design).

> Panes can be collapsed or expanded by using the SplitterButton[hyperlink to splitter button API section].

If we want to specify the default positions of the icon button w.r.t. the splitter, then the **Icon button position** section feels like the better place for it. See [comment](https://github.com/zendeskgarden/website/pull/416/files#r938270527).

I'd defer to @diana-oum for the final call.

> expanded states. [Tooltips](/components/tooltip) should be used to describe the action.

Reviewer 2: @smritimadan Looks amazing, Smriti! Great suggestions, thank you

import PaneVerticalCollapse from '../../examples/pane/PaneVerticalCollapse.tsx';
import PaneVerticalCollapseCode from '!!raw-loader!../../examples/pane/PaneVerticalCollapse.tsx';

<CodeExample code={PaneVerticalCollapseCode}>
  <PaneVerticalCollapse />
</CodeExample>

### Horizontal collapse

Horizontal orientation also uses a small [Icon button](/components/icon-button) to
collapse the pane. When the pane is collapsed, a stretched [Button](/components/button)

> is used to indicate an expandable state of the pane.

Reviewer: Ditto. These component link-outs are not technically valid. The eventual implementation of the horizontal action will _not_ be explicitly based on `<Button isStretched>`.

Reviewer 3: I think we can remove the second sentence as we don't have that functionality yet and rework in the future. The first sentence can be changed to match the discussion above.

Reviewer 2: According to @smritimadan 's original post in the PR, horizontal collapse is not implemented yet. 

My take is that we remove this section for now and update to include it when it's implemented. @lucijanblagonic We should rework this section at that time.

Author: Quick clarification @diana-oum , the standard view for the horizontal collapse (just the centered SplitterButton) is already implemented. The _alternate view_ for the horizontal collapse (stretched button) is not implemented yet.

Reviewer 2: @smritimadan Ah I see. Thanks for clarifying

Author: Agree with @lucijanblagonic, that we should rework in the future when we implement the alternate view for horizontal collapse. In continuation of the conversation in the above [comment](https://github.com/zendeskgarden/website/pull/416#discussion_r938272689), okay to remove this whole section for this PR?

import PaneHorizontalCollapse from '../../examples/pane/PaneHorizontalCollapse.tsx';
import PaneHorizontalCollapseCode from '!!raw-loader!../../examples/pane/PaneHorizontalCollapse.tsx';

<CodeExample code={PaneHorizontalCollapseCode}>
  <PaneHorizontalCollapse />
</CodeExample>

### Icon button position

> Icon button can be positioned at the start, center or on the end of the splitter.

Reviewer: It would be helpful if the pane content below actually guided the user to understanding what is what. I have a hard time telling at a glance what is going on. For example, the headings might read *Start*, *Center*, *End* (or something like that).

Reviewer 3: Same as above, the "Icon button" should be updated to match the agreed-upon term (Action?). Will let @diana-oum weigh in here.

Agreed on the headings suggestion. Since all examples are combined, is it OK they just separate the examples? That way the content within the examples remains consistent. 

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/773721/181718847-db895406-704e-4d8e-aa4e-a73b7dac3d3c.png)

Author: Updated in 27aff6b32d3fdb88b5ead08650b7f09406f90ec8.

> Icon button can be positioned at the start, center or on the end of the splitter.

Author: ```suggestion
The SplitterButton can be positioned at the start, center or end of the splitter. Its default position is at the start when used in vertical orientation and at the center when used in horizontal orientation.
```

import IconButtonPosition from '../../examples/pane/IconButtonPosition.tsx';
import IconButtonPositionCode from '!!raw-loader!../../examples/pane/IconButtonPosition.tsx';

<CodeExample code={IconButtonPositionCode}>
  <IconButtonPosition />
</CodeExample>

## Configuration

<Configuration reactPackage={props.data.mdx.package} components={props.data.mdx.components} />

> ## API

Author: API descriptions to follow in a separate PR.
